#summary A summary of the changes for each release
#labels Featured

= 1.3.0 =

  * The *once* attribute applies only to a default 1-tuple for a single variable. But now there is now a more general way to define once-only exceptions to higher-order combinations, by adding [http://www.cornutum.org/tcases/docs/Tcases-Guide.htm#once-tuples Once elements] to your generator definition.

  * Tcases Maven Plugin: Add parameter=project to make it easier to select a single project.

= 1.2.2 =

  * Tcases Guide: Rework to avoid inadvertent substitution of Maven properties.

= 1.2.1 =

  * Reducer: Improvements to logging make it easier to track progress.

= 1.2.0 =

  * Introducing the [http://www.cornutum.org/tcases/docs/Tcases-Guide.htm#reduce Tcases Reducer], which helps automate the search for a smaller set of test cases.

= 1.1.1 =

  * For XML input files, Tcases now validates the attributes specified for all elements. Tcases reports an error if any attribute is unknown or invalid.

= 1.1.0 =

  * Restructured as Maven project containing multiple modules, all downloadable from the Maven Central repository. See [HowToDownload].

  * Now available as a [http://www.cornutum.org/tcases/docs/tcases-maven-plugin/ Maven plugin], so you can use Maven to generate test cases directly from the system input definitions for your Maven project.

= 1.0.1 =

  * If generating JUnit (using the -J option), use a more useful default output file name of the form *${projectName}Test.java*. If necessary, convert the *${projectName}* part of the file name into a valid Java identifier. Consequently, -J does not have to be accompanied by -f to get good results.

  * When reading a system input definition document, report a failure for any reference to an undefined property. Write a WARN log message for any property definition that is not actually used. 